# CSCI 205 - Software Engineering and Design
Bucknell University
Lewisburg, PA

### Course Info
Instructor: Joshua Stough
Semester: Spring 2024

## Team Information

Mateo Herrera:
I am a 2nd year at Bucknell, and my major is a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science.

Holiness Kerandi:
I am a 2nd year Computer Science and Engineering major at Bucknell.


## Project Information
*The project is to rebuild a game called Mastermind which is a game which the user is given 12 attempts to guess a 4
color combination, and they are given feedback after every guess about the number of correct colors and the number of 
colors in the correct position in the combination.*

## How to run it
**How to build the project:**

We have 4 main classes: Board, GameManager, CodeBreaker, CodeMaker and the main.

Main:
This is where the game manager is run.

Board:
Places the scoring pegs ("----") on the screen and prints them, giving feedback to the player about their progress in 
the game.

CodeMaker:
This is where the code to be guessed is generated 

CodeBreaker:
This is where the guesses are checked and sent to the board so that the result is printed on the screen.
Also checks for all scoring pegs, therefore verifying the winner 

GameManager:
This is where the game is run. 
It prompts the user to choose between game mode and solver mode

If game mode is chosen:
The board is cleared and a new code is generated by calling generateCode() in CodeMaker.
The user is prompted for a guess and checked in CodeBreaker class, under th e restrictions that the guess 
is < 12 and the winner is not found. 

Asked whether the user wants to play again.

If solver mode is chosen:
The user is prompted to choose the algorithm to use and is redirected to the Solver class. 
In the Solver class, there are 3 classes that inherit the Solver class.

MiniMax Solver class
How the algorithm works:
Chooses a guess 


Random Solver Class
How the algorithm works:
There is 1296 random numbers that can be chosen. Each of the randomly generated numbers is checked by code breaker for 
the number of times the player wishes to simulate the game, until the game is won.

Genetic Algorithm Solver Class
How the algorithm works 
<<Basically survival for the fittest. >>
A large set of eligible code is connected throughout different generations. The best guess is determined and ranked based 
on its probability of being the actual combination.



**How to run the project:**

When the game is run, the user will be prompted to choose a solver mode or a player mode.

Player mode:

The user has 12 guesses in the beginning, and they enter their guess as a string of 4 numbers between 1 and 6 of any 
combination of their choice. If the player wants to give up then they press Q terminating a loop that runs based on the 
quit option and if there are no more guesses. The game stops.

If the user input is valid (within the desired range) then we converted the string to an array, where the numbers are
checked based on the correctness.
"-" is returned if the number is not in the combination.
"+" is if you have guessed the correct number but not the correct position.
"*" is returned if the number is in the correct position and the number is correct. 

The game is won if the value returned is 4 stars "****", together with how many guesses it takes.
The player is asked if they want to play again.


Solver mode:
There are 3 algorithms that we have implemented to solve the mastermind game.
The user is prompted to choose the algorithm of their choice:
1.Random Solver 
2.Min-Max Solver 
3.Genetic Algorithm Solver

A report is generated on the effectiveness of the above algorithms.




